In this lecture, we are going to add the option of uploading an image to the team member.
BLOCK We have the option of writing the entire logic, but that's a lot of work.
It would take hours to create an interface for managing images.
Fortunately, WordPress has a component for handling uploads called the media placeholder component.
In the resource section of this lecture, I provide a link to the documentation page for this component.
This component will generate an entire interface for managing and uploading files.
We can implement this component from within our blocks to leverage its features.
Let's give it a try.
In your editor, open the indexed JS file for the team member block.
The media placeholder component can be imported from the WordPress slash block editor package.
Next, let's update our block to use this component.
Scroll to the edit functions templates.
Inside the templates, we have an empty image tag.
Below this tag, let's render the media placeholder component.
In the future, we are going to toggle the appearance of this component.
If an image has been selected, this component will be hidden.
Otherwise the image tag will be hidden.
For now, both elements will appear in our block.
It's going to create an awkward UI, but that's perfectly fine.
On this component, we can configure the behavior with properties.
The media placeholder component will list all media files uploaded to our site.
Media files are not limited to images.
Sites can store audio, video and PDF files.
Let's limit the type of files that can appear in this block.
First, we are going to set the accepted type's property to an array of file types.
If you're not familiar with a mime type, let's quickly talk about them.
Typically files can be identified by their extension.
For example, PHP files have a dot php extension.
There is another way of identifying a file called a mime type.
Unlike extensions, mime types are not visible from within the file name.
They're stored as metadata in a file.
Mime types follow a specific format.
It's the category followed by the actual file type.
For example, if we had a tag image, the mime type would be image slash pag.
The image portion of the mime type would be the category.
The category and file type are separated with a forward slash character.
In the resource section of this lecture, I provide a link to a list of common mime types.
Generally, mime types can share a category for our block.
We are going to support mime types that belong to the image category.
Let's update our code to use this mime type.
Head back to the editor.
In the array, we can provide a list of mime types.
Let's add the image category.
It would be tedious to list every image mime type.
Luckily, we can omit the file type by providing the category.
If we provide the category, WordPress will permit files within this category.
However, if you want to limit the type of files that can be uploaded, feel free to add the file type.
For example, let's say the block can only have PNG files.
We can update the array to contain the image slash PNG mime type.
I'm going to revert this value to the image category.
As stated before, we're going to allow any image to be uploaded.
We're not finished yet.
This property will affect the type of files that will appear from within the media uploader.
In addition to this property, we must add the accepted property.
Users will have the option of uploading a file.
They do not need to select an existing file from the media library.
If they decide to upload a file, we must add the accepted property to set the type of file uploaded
to the server.
Let's set this value to the following image slash asterisk.
Once again, we're using a mime type.
However, we're adding the asterisk character to act as a wild card by doing so.
The file upload will be marked as an image.
After making those changes, let's add a few more properties.
The next property is called Icon.
We can add an icon to help the component stand out.
I'm going to set the icon to add many users.
This icon is from the official WordPress icon set called Dash Icons.
We can set this value to the name of the icon from this set.
The purpose of adding the media placeholder is to allow users to add an image for a team member.
I think the admin user's icon is appropriate for this component.
Let's move on to adding functions for handling uploads.
First, let's add the on select property.
The value for this property will be an arrow function that accepts the upload as an argument called
image.
Inside the body of the function log the message.
The on select property is an event.
This event gets emitted after an image has been selected or uploaded.
We are given the images information via an argument.
This information will be helpful for updating the block's appearance before testing our code.
There's another event worth adding called on error.
This event is emitted during errors.
For example, an upload can fail.
Let's pass in an arrow function to handle the event.
In this function, we can accept the error as an argument called error.
In the body of the function.
We can log the error with the console dot error function.
Normally we would log messages with the log function.
However, the error function is another function for logging messages.
The difference is that the message will have a red background.
It's not required to log errors with the error function.
However, it can add clarity if you want, you can swap this function with the log function.
Let's try testing our code.
Refresh the page.
Next, add the team members group block.
In the team member block.
WordPress has generated a UI for uploading a file or selecting a media file with a few lines of code.
We're given this entire interface.
Overall, using the media placeholder component is the best way to handle uploads.
Let's select an image.
After selecting an image, the details are logged in the console.
We are given various pieces of information from the name of the file to the file size.
With this information, let's begin updating our block to render the image.